Tuesday July 14th

On May 30th, 2016, I began the worst year of my life. Sitting in the Air Train between terminal C and Jamaica Station, I shuffled with the turbulence of the rail. Through the murmurs and coquettish flirting of exhaustion and distrust of strangers, I can only remember Waves, a song by Kanye West that both at once captured the wonderful possibilities I saw ahead of me and the terrible consequences for my decisions. It was also a bop.

Why do I remember this day? Today, as I wiped down the guide tubes for the probes, I listened to Clair De Lune. It stirred something in me, making me recall memories about 'the end.' But somehow I settled on a memory of the beginning. My story at Columbia, which I have tried to write about before and failed many times, starts here, at the end of my freshman year.

In the Air Train, I texted my then girlfriend Bar that I had safely landed. Plenty of unbearable emoji's tagged along. I'm sure I called it love then, but I was obsessed. On the drop of a pin, I had careened off the track of vageuly chasing success and instead chased this feeling. Perhaps the relationship gave me purpose, perhaps it gave me gratifaction. I'm not sure. But I do know that it consumed me and I paid the price.

That anxious summer, I phased between calling her and waiting to call her. So, so utterly foolish. The piper had not yet been paid, however, and I continued to devote time during the following semester. A truly lost time. The only thing I have to show for it are a hundred letters, each an exercise of desperation and feigned cynicism. But my greatest, most important stroke of luck resulted as I pushed lower and lower into a trampoline of depression and loneliness. I smacked my head, bled out, woke up in a hospital, and launched myself towards my real story.

Have I grown since then? What is different? Am I different? I was impulsive, ambitious, and foolhardy. Am I any different now?

After a devastating breakup, I joined a few clubs. I met Kavya. My grades soared. I went to Spain. Rejoined the Dixon lab. Made a friend for life. Became an AP TA. I met Josh, Elshadai, Nelson, and Kevin. My life turned around. I joined the Salzman lab. Shared many drinks. Published a paper. Ran a marathon. Scored high on my MCAT. Road-Tripped. Applied to Medical School. Met Rahim. Took molly in Berlin. Met Maria. Played basketball. Interviewed at many medical schools. Got into many medical schools. Worked every day of a pandemic.

I lived. I truly started living after that semester in hell. I am so thankful for all of it. If memories, of the grandeur and extravagant wonders to explore and the most heartfelt and awful emotions we experience, inevitably become "tears in rain," perhaps writing is mankind's umbrella. 


